# FAQ

## What is this?

The GrappleMap is:

1. a database of interconnected grappling positions and transitions,
   animated with stick figures

2. a set of tools to build and explore this database


## Which grappling techniques are included in the map?

The intent is to model as many MMA-applicable grappling techniques as possible, regardless
of whether they come from Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu, wrestling, Judo, Sambo, catch wrestling, etc.


## What is included per technique?

The map only shows techniques in their bare canonical form, and does not
include any discussion or explanation. However, the map almost always
includes a citation for source instructional materials, which readers are strongly
encouraged to consult for proper breakdowns, strategy, etc.


## How is the map organized?

### 1) as a graph

Techniques are modeled in a big [directed graph](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Graph_%28discrete_mathematics%29),
where each vertex is
a position and each edge is a transition.

This structure means that for something like a sweep that can be intercepted,
the point at which the sweep is either intercepted or not becomes a branch position,
which has the sweep attempt as an incoming transition, and two outgoing transitions
representing success and interception, respectively.

On the position pages, each listed incoming or outgoing transition is an edge in the
graph. Also on those pages (and on the position search page), the "Neighbourhood" diagrams
show local slices of the graph.

So one way of navigating through the map is simply by following
the transitions from position to position, either by clicking through the
position pages, or by making a drill in the drill composer (a "drill" here is just
a path through the graph).

### 2) by tags

In addition to being interconnected, positions and transitions are also named and tagged.
Tags are used for categorization into domains (e.g. half\_guard, side\_control),
but also for more detailed information about poses (e.g. bottom\_supine, top\_kneeling),
and also for presence of any specific grips or controls (e.g. lockdown, crossface).

The position search page lets you query positions based on presence and/or absence of tags.


## What is the purpose of the map?

- To give overviews of known transitions between known positions
- To encourage source-agnostic technique exploration
- To give concrete ideas for drills to practice
- To serve as an index into the literature, giving suggestions for specifically relevant instructional materials
- To (maybe one day) serve as training data set for machine learning algorithms to discover new jiu jitsu
- To be beautiful

... and I'm just having a blast working on it. :)


## Won't it take forever to get the necessary quality and quantity to start achieving these goals?

If I have to do it all by myself, probably yes. But I hope
that once I make the transition editor run in web browsers,
there might be some grappling nerds who want to help
me build the most awesome (no-gi) grappling map ever.


## What are the software components you have so far?

- Position pages

  The position pages with gifs and GraphViz graphs are generated by a C++ program.

- Position search

  The position search page does the searching with client-side Javascript, and uses
  D3 to render the graph slices.

- Drill Composer

  The drill composer lets you compose a drill (i.e., a path through the graph) by chaining
  transitions. The composer is integrated in the indexed HTML pages, and uses BabylonJS.

- Transition Explorer/Editor

  The transition explorer/editor is essentially a custom character animation editor
  that is highly specialized for modeling interconnected grappling positions.
  It is a C++ program that uses GLFW and currently only runs on Linux.

- Playback

  grapplemap-playback plays scripted or random sequences of transitions (e.g. to
  make videos).


## What license is the code and data under?

None; the GrappleMap code and data is released into the public domain.


## How well are the techniques modeled?

There are some neatly polished transitions in the database here and there,
but most of it is still only very rough approximations that will need a *lot* of
fleshing out and polishing.

I'm not using motion capturing technology, so it's hard manual labour to make the
movements look good in the transition editor (where you manipulate the bodies as
rag dolls by dragging their joints).

Also, almost all the movements are taken from instructional materials, which only show
a few varieties per position. In actual fights, positions occur in infinite variety.

Also, I do not map the rapid small-scale hand fighting and battling for grips
and controls.
Usually the level of detail in the map is that a grip or control is either
acquired without great strain, or not at all, and that's it.


## What about gi techniques?

I personally have no interest in gi-specific techniques, there are no such
techniques in the database, and clothes are not modeled in the software
(doing it right would be a lot of additional work).

If someone else wants to make GiGrappleMap, power to them!


## Wouldn't more realistic bodies/skeletons be better?

To make creating and editing transitions as simple as possible, the stick figures
originally had even fewer "joints"/"bones". I added more only as
necessary to allow faithful expression of techniques I wanted to map. This
process resulted in the current stick figures, which I think strike a good
balance that fits the purpose of the GrappleMap.


## What about other body types?

I'm not really interested in mapping those few rare techniques that only work for
specific body types.


## What about the fence/cage (in MMA)?

It's on the [todo list](todo.txt).

## How about some nicer graphics?

For the near future, my focus is on expanding and polishing the database contents,
and improving the tools to help me do that.


## What is the database format?

The database is a [plain text file](https://github.com/Eelis/GrappleMap/blob/master/GrappleMap.txt) that declares:

1. Positions (with name, tags, description/reference, and joint coordinates)

2. Transitions (with name, tags, description/reference, and joint coordinates for each frame)

It's a pretty ad-hoc and minimalistic format, but it has the nice property that
textual diffs show which positions and transitions differ, and that an ordinary
text editor can be used to edit the names, descriptions, and tags.

I fully expect that the format will evolve into something different to accommodate future features.


## Do you train personally?

Back in university, I trained with their MMA club for a year or so, but it was super
casual, and a long time ago. I basically have no martial arts credentials whatsoever.


## Can I help?

I can certainly use help, because there is *so much* grappling technique!

But:

- The transition editor currently only runs on Linux and is not yet ready for use
  by non-technies, since some operations still require manually editing the database
  text file

- There is no diff tool yet (it's on the todo), so modifications to existing positions
  and transitions are hard to review

- The GrappleMap must remain in the public domain, so contributions have to be as well

If all of that is no problem, mail me (grapplemap@contacts.eelis.net) or find me
as "Eelis" on Freenode IRC.
